posts/zettelkasten/proof-of-work.md, before:

---
title: Proof of Work
excerpt: Is a form of cryptography zero-knowledge proof that one part, the prover, proves to others, the verifies, that some amount of computational resources was used to complete some task.
date: 2021-03-07
rating: 2
tags:
  - bitcoin
  - cryptocurrencies
  - cryptography
  - Cynthia Dwork
  - Moni Namor
  - blockchain
---

## Notes

- Is a form of cryptography zero-knowledge proof that one part, the prover, proves to others, the verifies, that some amount of computational resources was used to complete some task.

- It was invented by [Cynthia Dwork](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cynthia_Dwork) and [Moni Namor](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moni_Naor) in 1993 as an effort do deter denial-of-services attacks and other services abuses such as spam.

  - It costs some effort to the attacker to make a request. Thus, it becomes inviable sending a big amount of request in a short period of time.

- It's asymmetric:

  - It must be hard enough to provers finish the work.
  - It must be easy to verifies validate the provers result.

- It was popularized by [Bitcoin](/zettelkasten/bitcoin).
  - Miners spend some computational resource to append blocks on [blockchain](/zettelkasten/blockchain).

## Questions

- If is a cryptography zero-knowledge, do we may compare this as the gold miners, in which they need only physical force to find gold?

- What is the difference between [CAPTCHA](/zettelkasten/CAPTCHA) and proof of work?

## References

- [Wikipedia. Proof of work](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proof_of_work)

- [Investoepedia. Proof of Work](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/p/proof-work.asp)

Commit message:

feat: no bs time chapter 11

posts/zettelkasten/proof-of-work.md, after:

---
title: Proof of Work
excerpt: Is a form of cryptography zero-knowledge proof that one part, the prover, proves to others, the verifies, that some amount of computational resources was used to complete some task.
date: 2021-03-07
rating: 2
tags:
  - bitcoin
  - cryptocurrencies
  - cryptography
  - Cynthia Dwork
  - Moni Namor
  - blockchain
---

## Notes

- Is a form of cryptography zero-knowledge proof that one part, the prover, proves to others, the verifies, that some amount of computational resources was used to complete some task.

- It was invented by [Cynthia Dwork](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cynthia_Dwork) and [Moni Namor](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moni_Naor) in 1993 as an effort to deter denial-of-service attacks and other services abuses such as spam.

  - It costs some effort to the attacker to make a request. Thus, it becomes inviable to send a big amount of requests in a short period.

- It's asymmetric:

  - It must be hard enough to provers finish the work.
  - It must be easy to verify validate the provers result.

- It was popularized by [Bitcoin](/zettelkasten/bitcoin).
  - Miners spend some computational resources to append blocks on [blockchain](/zettelkasten/blockchain).

## Questions

- It is a cryptography zero-knowledge. May we compare this as the gold miners, in which they need mostly physical force to find gold?

- What is the difference between [CAPTCHA](/zettelkasten/CAPTCHA) and proof of work?

## References

- [Wikipedia. Proof of work](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proof_of_work)

- [Investoepedia. Proof of Work](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/p/proof-work.asp)
