posts/books/the-principles-of-product-development-flow.md, before:

---
title: The Principles of Product Development Flow
excerpt: 'The Principles of Product Development Flow will forever change the way you think about product development. Reinertsen starts with the ideas of lean manufacturing but goes far beyond them, drawing upon ideas from telecommunications networks, transportation systems, computer operating systems and military doctrine. He combines a lucid explanation of the science behind flow with a rich set of practical approaches. This is another landmark book by one of the foremost experts on product development.'
# date: 2021-01-02
tags:
  - product-development
# rating: 5
book:
  authors:
    - Donald G. Reinertsen
  link: https://www.amazon.com/Principles-Product-Development-Flow-Generation-ebook/dp/B00K7OWG7O
  ASIN: B00K7OWG7O
---

## Principles

### The Economic View

#### E1: The Principle of Quantified Overall Economics: Select actions based on quantified overall economic impact.

You should consider the economic impact of all possible decisions when you have to make a project decision. Choosing between releasing a project soon without many tests or testing more and release later should be an economic, not a philosophical choice.

#### E2. The Principle of Interconnected Variables: We can't just change one thing.

One decision almost always simultaneously affects multiple variables. [Proxy variables](/zettelkasten/proxy-variable) are interconnected because they represent other variables.

#### E3. The Principle of Quantified Cost of Delay If you only quantify one thing, quantify the cost of delay.

You don't have business trading money for cycle time if you don't know the economic value of cycle time. No single sensitivity is more eye-opening than the cost of delay (COD). Cost of queues, determined by COD, dominates the economics of Flow.

#### E4. The Principle of Economic Value-Added: The value added by an activity is the change in the economic value of the work product.

The value added by an activity is the difference in the price that an economically rational buyer would pay for work before and after the action performed.

Waste, or non-value-added, is also an economic concept. You must convert the waste in life-cycle profit to compare and other trade-off wastes.

#### E5. The Inactivity Principle: Watch the work product, not the worker.

Making activities more efficient is much less important than eliminating **inactivity**. Your most significant waste isn't unproductive engineers in product development but work products sitting idle in queues.

Inventory is the most significant waste in manufacturing because it destroys quality, efficiency, and cycle time. When you increase value-added time in a process with variability, you will create queues. The cost of these queues is far greater than any efficiency savings that come from the value-added increase.

#### E6. The U-Curve Principle: Important trade-offs are likely to have U-curve optimizations.

U-curve is the combination of a hyperbolic and a linear function. It has two essential properties. First, optimization never occurs at extreme values. Because of this, it always requires quantification because you must balance two or more competing factors. Second, U-curve optimizations don't require precise answers because U-curves have flat bottoms, then missing the exact optimum costs very little. Thus, you don't need highly accurate information to improve your economic decisions. As a result, the framework becomes more insensitive to noisy assumptions.

#### E7. The Imperfection Principle: Even imperfect answers improve decision-making.

The absence of frameworks will lead workers to make bad decisions because they will use intuition instead of analysis. This intuition produces a 50 to 1 difference in the price people pay for cycle time. With an economic framework, this range down to 2 to 1.

As you try to analyze economics, you uncover those assumptions that significantly impact your answers, which permits you to invest more effort in getting these assumptions correct. Thus, the economic view regeneratively improves your understanding of economics.

### Controlling Flow Under Uncertainty

#### F8: The Cadence Batch Size Enabling Principle: Use a regular cadence to enable small batch sizes.

Cadence enforces small batch size by forcing work products to move forward on a fixed rhythm. For example, if the review is every X time, the batch size is X time worth of work.

It also enforces small batch sizes because it removes coordination overhead, the transaction cost. Everyone knows that the event will occur on some date, so there is no overhead associated with setting up the event. With the lower transaction cost, small batches are economical.

Commit message:

feat: add pareto paradox and E7 and E8 Flow principles

posts/books/the-principles-of-product-development-flow.md, after:

---
title: The Principles of Product Development Flow
excerpt: 'The Principles of Product Development Flow will forever change the way you think about product development. Reinertsen starts with the ideas of lean manufacturing but goes far beyond them, drawing upon ideas from telecommunications networks, transportation systems, computer operating systems and military doctrine. He combines a lucid explanation of the science behind flow with a rich set of practical approaches. This is another landmark book by one of the foremost experts on product development.'
# date: 2021-01-02
tags:
  - product-development
# rating: 5
book:
  authors:
    - Donald G. Reinertsen
  link: https://www.amazon.com/Principles-Product-Development-Flow-Generation-ebook/dp/B00K7OWG7O
  ASIN: B00K7OWG7O
---

## Principles

### The Economic View

#### E1: The Principle of Quantified Overall Economics: Select actions based on quantified overall economic impact.

You should consider the economic impact of all possible decisions when you have to make a project decision. Choosing between releasing a project soon without many tests or testing more and release later should be an economic, not a philosophical choice.

#### E2. The Principle of Interconnected Variables: We can't just change one thing.

One decision almost always simultaneously affects multiple variables. [Proxy variables](/zettelkasten/proxy-variable) are interconnected because they represent other variables.

#### E3. The Principle of Quantified Cost of Delay If you only quantify one thing, quantify the cost of delay.

You don't have business trading money for cycle time if you don't know the economic value of cycle time. No single sensitivity is more eye-opening than the cost of delay (COD). Cost of queues, determined by COD, dominates the economics of Flow.

#### E4. The Principle of Economic Value-Added: The value added by an activity is the change in the economic value of the work product.

The value added by an activity is the difference in the price that an economically rational buyer would pay for work before and after the action performed.

Waste, or non-value-added, is also an economic concept. You must convert the waste in life-cycle profit to compare and other trade-off wastes.

#### E5. The Inactivity Principle: Watch the work product, not the worker.

Making activities more efficient is much less important than eliminating **inactivity**. Your most significant waste isn't unproductive engineers in product development but work products sitting idle in queues.

Inventory is the most significant waste in manufacturing because it destroys quality, efficiency, and cycle time. When you increase value-added time in a process with variability, you will create queues. The cost of these queues is far greater than any efficiency savings that come from the value-added increase.

#### E6. The U-Curve Principle: Important trade-offs are likely to have U-curve optimizations.

U-curve is the combination of a hyperbolic and a linear function. It has two essential properties. First, optimization never occurs at extreme values. Because of this, it always requires quantification because you must balance two or more competing factors. Second, U-curve optimizations don't require precise answers because U-curves have flat bottoms, then missing the exact optimum costs very little. Thus, you don't need highly accurate information to improve your economic decisions. As a result, the framework becomes more insensitive to noisy assumptions.

#### E7. The Imperfection Principle: Even imperfect answers improve decision-making.

The absence of frameworks will lead workers to make bad decisions because they will use intuition instead of analysis. This intuition produces a 50 to 1 difference in the price people pay for cycle time. With an economic framework, this range down to 2 to 1.

As you try to analyze economics, you uncover those assumptions that significantly impact your answers, which permits you to invest more effort in getting these assumptions correct. Thus, the economic view regeneratively improves your understanding of economics.

#### E8. The Principles of Small Decisions: Influence the many small decisions.

Many companies make big decisions at a higher level but don't have an economic framework to make the many small decisions correctly. These small decisions have an enormous economic impact.

Because of the [Pareto Paradox](/zettelkasten/pareto-paradox), influencing many small decisions has important implications because there are many opportunities there.

### Controlling Flow Under Uncertainty

#### F8: The Cadence Batch Size Enabling Principle: Use a regular cadence to enable small batch sizes.

Cadence enforces small batch size by forcing work products to move forward on a fixed rhythm. For example, if the review is every X time, the batch size is X time worth of work.

It also enforces small batch sizes because it removes coordination overhead, the transaction cost. Everyone knows that the event will occur on some date, so there is no overhead associated with setting up the event. With the lower transaction cost, small batches are economical.
